1. Rapid application development 
2. Hits the main thread
3. Spring boot has new parent pom
4. No need to have version matching issues
5. @RestController
6. @RequestMapping
7. Can use spring cli to initialize


How does spring boot work? 

We never ran the war file which is weird

1) App starts from java main method
2) Spring boot initializes the context 
3) Embedded server is present

@SpringBootApplication tells where the app has to be started
@EnableAutoConfiguration - autoconfigs and scans class path for any spring stuff
@ComponentScan - search for all spring component scan
KEEP THE MAIN CLASS IN THE HIGHEST LEVEL
Why we moved to containerless deployment 

Why we moved away from Jboss, Weblogic and Tomcat ?
a) setup required
b) web.xml file
c) Env configuration - JNDI


Advantage -> 
1) anywhere where java is installed it works
2) Can be deployed to a container as well
3) Can be debugged and tested

springboot , spring mvc , spring - core

serve static content from resources folder and put into public folder


What did spring boot did ? 
1) adding spring boot-starter-web adds all spring mvc
2) Spring boot jackson json library
3) setup static resource
4) UTF 8 encoding

Changing the env and properties
1) application.properties file can be used to change the properties
2) YAML based configs
3) can define additional profile properties
ex - application-dev.properties
using spring profiles
1) add application properties file
lots of properties in spring boot

logging
changing server port

specfiy profiles

connecting data source and database

Learning - Spring Data JPA and Flyway

Persistence tier - 
REST API -> Tie JPA and Springdata JPA , embeddable h2 Database to provision

FlywayDB Migration to migrate databases

JPA - java persistence API -> for database connectivity

we donot use 
DataSource pooling - improves 
Spring automatically improves pull

tomcat-jdbc default pooling library

flyway ?

hibernate is shut off

ORM -> Object relational mapping (hibernate etc)
app config

can do configurations from java code

data configuration is done programatically


JPA

still don't get the use of fly way
